[Music]
morning good morning it's a pleasure to
be with you this morning I wish that I
could be there in person so I want to
explain why I am NOT as you know I used
to come to Canada for many many years I
worked with Toronto business and data
business forms developing and helping
develop your government Treasury checks
and your bonds I've spoke to many
organizations including RCMP but after
the movie catch me if you can came out
Canadian customs would no longer allow
me back in the country based on the law
that says if you committed a crime you
cannot come into the country so for
several years I've been not able to come
back to Canada but I'm glad that I'm
able to reach and speak out to you today
from my hometown in Charleston South
Carolina as you know I've been attached
to the FBI for over 42 years I've
written several books on all types of
crimes and three of them on identity
theft what is amazing to me I guess is
that what I did fifty years ago as a
teenage boy is thousands of times easier
to do today because of technology
unfortunately technology breeds crime it
always has and there always will there
will always be people willing to use
technology in a negative self-serving
way so we've had over a billion identity
stolen including mine and probably
everyone in the audience as I mentioned
I live in South Carolina about four
years ago someone hacked into our tax
revenue office and stole 3.8 million tax
returns of the citizens of South
Carolina including me that means they
had your social security number your
wife's social security number your
children's social security number
because you claim them as dependents if
you paid your state taxes by cheque they
had an image of your cheque so they knew
where your bank what your account number
was at the bank what your routing number
was into your account that you're wiring
instructions how you sign your checks or
cheque number you were on and if you're
paid by credit card or debit card they
had that on the day the incident
Kirt I was actually in the FBI field
office in Phoenix Arizona saw our local
TV station and Charleston tracked me
down
they really just wanted a comment from
me about what I thought about having my
identity stolen and I asked the reporter
what did the state tax revenue office
have to say and they said well they said
they did absolutely nothing wrong
my comment was that would be absolutely
literally impossible every breach every
breach occurs because somebody in that
company did something they weren't
supposed to do or somebody in that
company failed to do something they were
supposed to do and hackers do not cause
breaches people do in the end of an
investigation it turned out an employee
at the tax revenue office took home a
laptop they weren't supposed to take
home they went online in an unrestricted
area and obviously the hackers got in
when we had the Equifax breach which
keeps growing it started at a hundred
and forty million now it's a hundred and
forty eight million started out of 1
million driver's licenses now it's ten
point six million drivers licenses four
thousand passports again this is a
company that failed to keep their
technology updated failed to fix the
patches that were sent to them allowing
the hacker to get in I cannot
overemphasize to you the importance
today of teaching your employees and
that's everyone from the CEO to the
janitor the importance of keeping the
information that's been entrusted to
them safe and that comes through
education there is no technology and
there never will be any technology that
defeats social engineering you only
defeat social engineering through
education so during the month of October
in the United States that cyber
awareness month for the last five years
I've gone out five days a week every
week during that month to speak to a
fortune 500 company
I think I wrapped up last year at
Nationwide Insurance in Columbus Ohio
and basically when I go out to those
companies I do not park in the visitor
parking lot I park in the employee
parking lot and when I get out of the
car I empty my pockets of memory sticks
that say confidential
I throw them all over the parking lot I
have a tracking device on them so at
lunch time in the company's cafeteria I
opened my laptop to see how many
employees internally went to see what
that memory stick says it says this is a
test and you failed I've yet to be at a
company we're not more than one or more
than one person has looked at that I try
to explain later that I could have cost
our company a billion dollars overnight
and destroyed the 100-year old brand
again I cannot overemphasize the
importance of Education today if you get
an email from the CEO down to the
accounting department that says I want
to review the w-2s or the tax of
employees tax records that's an unusual
request that person should have gotten
up went up to the CEOs office and asked
if they actually sent that email the
emails that are getting so sophisticated
because the people who put these emails
out are learning so much about the
individual on social media so I've seen
emails that simply from the CEO to the
CFO that might say Bob enjoyed dinner
with you and your wife Karen last night
at your beautiful home I forgot to
mention to you over dinner that as you
know I'm leaving to go to Nashville
today and I'll be gone for a week I
wanted you to wire 35,000 dollars to
this charity and to do so today by noon
well that's very convincing because
you're sat there you did have dinner
whether it me knows your wife's name but
all of that came from social media we
live in a way too much information world
we tell people way too many things and
consequently we wonder why people are
stealing our identities now it'd be
foolish of me to talk about this and not
tell you how to protect your identity
because it's as simple as it is to steal
one's identity it is even simpler to
protect yourself from not being a victim
of that crime so I only ask people to do
what I do myself first of all I do have
a shredder I shred everything yesterday
you got a catalog from Macy's or a
department store you looked at it but
you didn't want anything so you threw it
away on the back cover was your name and
address a barcode a source code and ID
number that's all I need to become you
what you think is worthless is of great
value to
buddy else there are basically three
shredders built in the world three types
are a lot of manufacturers staples
fellows and many others but if you're
using a straight ribbon shredder that's
a ribbon shredder that cuts paper
straight at the FBI laboratory in
Quantico Virginia we put those documents
back together in less than 30 minutes we
can shred the entire Wall Street Journal
and put it back together in an hour if
we can do it so can the criminals many
people use a crisscross shredder much
better cuts paper down to a little
rectangle or small box but we use a
software called a puzzler that allows us
to put those documents back together as
we did in Enron world calm Tyco Arthur
Andersen even though the shredder is
shredded order to shredded thousands of
pieces of material we put it back
together and so can a criminal so when
you go out to buy a shredder it's not so
much of who made the shredder you're
looking on the box for the type of
shredder it is and what you're looking
for is a security micro cut shredder
same price as the others but that's a
shredder that turns paper into confetti
or about the size of a piece of rice
second I do use a credit monitoring
service I've used one since 1992 mainly
because I believe you take
responsibility for yourself so it allows
me ten times a day 20 times a day to go
on my keyboard and simply type in a few
keys and up comes my credit report up on
my screen
all three Equifax Experian TransUnion at
the top is my score for that time of day
I can scroll down through my credit so
if I see that TD Bank I had a bank loan
there for a car says I still owe $2,000
but I actually paid the loan off a year
ago I can fix that as I scroll down
further I see all inquiries made on my
credit but what we refer to as soft and
hard inquiries so I see inquiries from
the government tax office
I see inquiries from my employer the
insurance company my bank all of those
inquiries the credit card companies
where I might applied for a credit card
and if something looks suspicious I can
do something about it
but also for that twelve or fourteen
dollar-a-month fee they're monitoring my
credit and they're letting me know in
real time if someone's attempting to use
my credit I don't write a lot of checks
in today's environment if I were to
go into drugstore tomorrow and write a
check for $9 I'd have to hand the clerk
to check on the check is my name and
address and phone number my bank's name
and address my account number at that
Bank my routing number into that account
that's your wiring instructions my
signature on the signature card at the
bank and then the clerk is written on
the front center of the check my
driver's license number in my date of
birth obviously I don't get the check
back we live in truncation so I get an
image of the check the cheque has to be
destroyed by who at the merchant I gave
it to anyone who would see the face of
that cheque could draw funds against my
account they could do an account
takeover by simply ordering checks
through checks in the mail calm and then
simply putting their name on the check
and my account number and every check
they write would debit against my
account and finally I don't own a debit
card I've never owned one never allowed
my three sons to have one a long time
ago I learned that the safest form of
payment that exists on the face of the
earth is a credit card credit card Visa
MasterCard American Express Discover
card not debit credit but credit every
day of my life I actually literally
spend the credit card companies money I
never spend my money my money sits in a
money market account it earns interest
nobody knows where it is that has never
exposed to anyone I will do everything
to protect my number but if tomorrow
someone were to charge a million dollars
on my credit card
bylaw my liability is zero when I pay
the bill every month or part of the bill
my credit score goes up so I keep
building credit and my good name when
you use a debit card every time you
reach for it you're exposing the money
in your account in every post
investigation in the United States of
the target breached the homeland homes
home depot breach and every one of those
afterwards people said well I was in the
store but I only used a Visa card so
they cancelled my card in two days later
FedEx delivered me a new card and that
was the last I heard about it the other
person would say no I had a debit card
it took $3,000 out of my checking
account it took me three months why they
said they are investigating to get my
money back so a lot of young people
unfortunately
they only use a debit card they go to
college for four years they graduate
they come out and look for an apartment
and the manager says son you have no
credit you don't even have a credit file
with a credit bureau so you're gonna
have to have your parents co-sign the
lease so I had three sons that went off
to college I told them I wasn't going to
give him a debit card but that I had
applied for a credit card in their name
their card of course they were 18 they
didn't have any credit so I guaranteed
the card and that allowed three things
one it allowed me to get a card in their
name it allowed me to set the limit on
that card and it also allowed me to pay
that bill every month see how what they
were spending what were they were doing
at school but when I paid that bill
every month it went on their credit so
by the time they graduated from college
they had credit scores up in the 800s
one of the best things you can do for
your kids I'm happy to say that there is
a new technology and I would appreciate
it when any of you have time to just
bring up the website for a company
called truth Sona that's t ru s ona
standing for true persona you know for
years I have said that we have got to
get rid of passwords this is a 1964
technology that we are using today
around the world in 2018 passwords or
why we have all the problems that we
have today true Sona is a technology
that does away with the need for a
password it works off of your phone so
that feel worth drawing money from an
ATM you literally just pull up to the
ATM hit the app on your phone for your
bank put your phone up to the screen and
you're in you don't need a card you
don't need a password it's been used now
by hundreds of banks it's being used all
over the world it's being used by
insurance companies as well as being
used internally by banks - so why are
money from a huge accounts and large
sums it is an amazing technology I had
the opportunity to work on the
technology as an advisor as I have many
technologies over my 42 years but I've
never worked on a technology that had
such promise today to finally bring us
to an era where usernames and passwords
will be a thing of the past and you will
not have to use a debit
card or a card to get into your bank or
to get information you will simply use
your phone and our phone of course is
going to be the way that we do business
whether we like it or not everything is
going to be eventually tied to our phone
my website is just my name I sell no
products I provide no services it's just
Abagnale calm but i do put tremendous
amount of information up there every day
about all types of things embezzlement
check forgery counterfeiting identity
theft cyber crimes and you'll find a
great deal of information to help you
protect your family your personal access
and your business thanks to payments
Canada for having me from Charleston
South Carolina it's been a pleasure
spending the morning with you this is
Frank Abagnale have a great day
you